+++
title = "Website Changelog[2025.03.16]"
description = "Added sidebar and navigation buttons"
date = 2025-03-16T21:15:00+08:00
draft = false

[taxonomies]
tags = ["changelog"]
[extra]
keywords = "网站，网站搭建"
toc = true
series = "build"
+++

# What did I do today?
1. added a sidebar (sorted by tags) for blog posts. and deleted the "tags" page.
2. added navigation button (previous/next blog) for posts and gallery.
3. kinda understood the logic of html language

# Why did I do what I do?
1. Sidebar: for users to easily navigate. Before this change, my blog posts are basically sorted by date. It is hard to tell what kind of themes are covered by my blog posts. If someone come to my website and wants to know what kind of articles I write, they would be so lost. Therefore, I dedicated a sidebar for all my blog posts. Maybe I will update one for my gallery page as well.

2. Navigation buttons: so users don't have to jump back to home page everytime they finish reading an article. This is quite straightforward so I'll leave it at that.

# What challenges did I face?
1. Sidebar: 
- the location of the sidebar: it was first located at the bottom of the page. and I wanted it to be at the same height as the content. So I wrap both the content and sidebar in a container. Which, in the post.html, looks like this:
```html
<div class="post-container">
    <!-- Main content -->
    <article></article>
    <!-- Sidebar -->
    <aside></aside>
</div>
```
Then, I added the CSS in sass/blog.scss:

```html
.post-container {
    display: flex;
    gap: 2rem;
    margin: 2rem 0;
}

.post-content {
    flex: 1;  /* Takes up remaining space */
}

.post-sidebar {
    width: 250px;
    position: sticky;
    top: 2rem;
    height: calc(100vh - 4rem);
    overflow-y: auto;
}
```
- then, I wanted to apply the sidebar in all post pages. So I did the following:
1.All templates use the same class names
2.Same structure with post-container as wrapper
3.Content in post-content
4.Sidebar in post-sidebar

- I ran into alot of error as I am not familiar with the sass structure. I forgot to import the hooks macro into the template for the click-result of sidebar tag.  

2. Navigation button:
- the position of the "Next" button is too close with the "Previous" button: I adjusted this in a very stuipdly-simple way - by adding a 
```html
.post-navigation {
    /*my other stuff*/
    gap: 4rem
}

```
in sass/blog.scss.

I was worried that the gap is a consistent spacing thus wouldn't adjust to different size and different gadget (i.e. iphone). (Although claude told me gap is perfect for responsibe adjustments) To double insure things don't go wierd, I added more flexibility.
```html
.post-navigation {
    display: flex;
    flex-wrap: wrap; / *Allows items to wrap on small screens*/
    /*and other stuff*/
}
.next-post {
    flex: 1;                  /* Allows items to grow and shrink */
    min-width: 250px;         /* Forces wrap when screen is too small */
    /*ad other stuff*/
}

```
To check if things adjust size, I zola serve and :
In Chrome/Firefox:
1. Right-click > Inspect
2. Click the mobile device icon (Toggle device toolbar)
3. Select a device from dropdown (iPhone, iPad, etc.)
4. Or drag the edges to any size
## 耗时：4hr

# What next?
1. I should really learn about markdown.
- the block code looks really ugly: the background is blackkk
- my blog posts look ugly: the text is TOO BIG
2. fill up my about page
3. gather more website ideas
4. add more content??