+++
title = "网站搭建记录"
description = "总之记录一下"
date = 2025-02-02T11:10:00+08:00
draft = false

[taxonomies]
tags = ["build"]
[extra]
keywords = "网站，网站搭建"
toc = true
series = "build"
+++

# What did I do today?
I changed the theme of my website! Specifically, I did the following steps:
1. create a new directory
2. going to terminal to setup the directory: 
2a. cd new directory
2b. zola init *this creates the necessary folders needed to build the website. The folders include content, sass, static, templates, and themes. Of course, we also have a config.toml under the root directory*
3. downloading the zola-inky theme from github, and moving it under directory/themes.
4. copy and paste the zola-inky/config.toml to my root directory's config.toml *by doing so, I make sure the config.toml comes first when netlify builds the website*
5. edit the config.toml. specifically, i change the url to my website and added "theme = 'zola-inky'" *this makes sure that zola goes to the themes/templates when it found the root directory/templates are empty. all folders go the same except for content folder.*
5a. the beauty of this design is that, I only need to create a new template html if I want to override the theme templates. Additionally, I can create my content without having example content on my website.
6. creating the content.
6a. I followed the theme's template structure, and created two folders:"gallery" and "posts", and 2 files: "about.md" and “search.md". 
6b. Gallery folder: creating an "_index.md" that explains which template html this page should follow. Then, I create 1 folder for each folder. Under this folder, I added a picture and an index.md that describes how this picture should be displayed and a description.
6c. Posts folder: creating an "_index.md" as well. Then, I migrated my blog posts md files to this folder.
6d. about.md: this describes the landing page of the "About" page.
6e. search.md: this describes the landing page of the "Search" page.
7. adding a photo under static folder *this is defined under the content/search.md and content/about.md and root/config.toml->avtar*
7a. I honestly don't know the difference between having a photo under the content folder and under the static folder lol
8. going to terminal to build the website:
8a. zola serve: this helps me take a look at what the website would look like
8b. zola build: this creates a public folder under the root directory with all the current polished folders. I think of it as a snapshoot of what I built so it could deploy online.
9. pushing the built website to github.
9a. I go to my github page to create a new repo.
10. going to netlify to relink the github repo
10a. going to netlify deploy > deploy setting > relink github repo > can't find my repo > authorize netlify to access my new repo > select new repo
11. going to the terminal to create a new github folder under the root directory (I don't know why):
'''
git init
git branch -M main
*Add your remote (use your existing repo URL)*
git remote add origin https://github.com (copy my repo link here)

*Add and commit your files*
git add .
git commit -m "New blog with new theme"

*Force push to main (since you're replacing the old content)*
git push -f origin main
'''
12. wait for netlify to deploy!

# Why did I change the theme?
I used to use abridge, but now I switched to zola-inky.
Abridge is a great theme, but the author's template structure is too complex for me to understand, so I couldn't customize it easily.
Additionally, I didn't like the landing page of Abridge theme. The landing page directly leads to the blog posts, which could be abit overwhelming for a new visitor. I wanted more hierachies of information, so the user could focus on fewer information when navigating.
That's why zola-inky theme is preferred by me. On the landing page, you could find four different "pages" with four very eye-catching header. I hope this would help the visitor find what he/she finds interesting easily.
Moreover, I am consider mergin my art account with my website, so the fact that zola-inky theme comes with a gallery section helps a lot.

## 耗时：4hr

# What next?
1. upload more content
2. add a new section called "Projects" -> inspired by the zola-inky author's personal website
3. the search function couldn't search the blog post
4. why still abridge icon?